Hello all! Welcome to the rules for the crawl.akrasiac.org 2009 Dungeon
Crawl Stone Soup Tournament. The simple part: Play on crawl.akrasiac.org
or crawl.develz.org and all of your games that start after midnight UTC
on August 1 will count toward the tournament. 

If you wish to be a member of a clan, which may contain six or fewer
members, you need to add a line to the top of your CAO rcfile like this:
"# TEAMCAPTAIN nameofcaptain". This should be the very first line of
your rcfile, with no blank lines or comments appearing before this line.

The # is important to make sure Crawl doesn't try to parse the team data
as an option. The team captain must put more information in her
.crawlrc, specifically these two lines:

"# TEAMNAME nameofteam"
"# TEAMMEMBERS player1 player2 player3 player4 player5"

Again, these lines should be the very first two lines in the team
captain's rcfile, with no blank lines or anything else appearing before
these lines.

Clan names must contain only alphanumeric characters, underscores,
and hyphens. Once a player's username is in the captain's rc and the
captain's username is in the player's rc and our script checks for
updates, the players will be in the same clan!

The big change this year will be the addition of award banners: Things
you can get that put you on a list as achieving a certain goal in the
tournament. Some of them are pretty standard: Rune, Win. Some of them are
a little goofier and it's theoretically possible to win the tournament
without getting them. How did we come up with these banners, you might
ask? Well, I asked each of the Crawl gods to contribute something,
and what they came up with is at the end...

WINS:
----
100 points for first win. (Since winning is kind of the goal.)
50 points for second win that is not a repeat race or class.
10 points for each win thereafter, repeat or not.
50 extra points for your first all-rune victory.
100 extra points for each consecutive win that is not a repeat race or class.
30 extra points for each consecutive win that is a repeat race xor class.
10 extra points for each consecutive win that is a repeat race and class.
30 extra points for each non-consecutive win that is not a repeat race or
  class.
10 extra points for each non-consecutive win that is a repeat race xor class.

For streak wins, "Repeat" means "in that streak;" for non-streak wins, "repeat"
means "ever."

SPECIAL WINS 
------------
200/100/50 points for fastest win in realtime.
200/100/50 points for fastest win by turncount.
200/100/50 points for first win scored. 
200/100/50 points for first 15-rune victory. 

RUNES 
-----
10 points each time you find each type of rune for the first time.
1 point each time you find any rune a second or later time.

UNIQUES 
-------
5 points the first time you kill each unique. 
50/20/10 points for most unique uniques killed; ties broken by who gets
  that number first. 

HIGH SCORES 
-----------
5 points per high score in a race/class combination (HuWn, not just Hu)
5 additional points for each high score that is a win.
10 points per high score in a race.
10 points per high score in a class.
200/100/50 points for most high scores in race/class combos.
200/100/50 points for highest single game score overall.

CLAN POINTS ONLY
------------
These get you clan points but do not get you points toward the individual
prize, encouraging specialization on clans but making the hypothetical
"Best Crawl Player" award based on more "real" metrics.

50/20/10 points for lowest dungeon level reached at XL1. 
2 points per player ghost killed when playing 
N points per ghost kill after dying, where N is the dying character's 
  XL minus 5. 
200/100/50 for _clan_ with most high scores in race/class combos.
100/50/20 for _clan_ with most uniques killed (or all uniques killed
  first)

CLAN SCORING
------------
Sum total of individual points for wins, runes, and uniques, sum total of special wins
points, sum total of high scores points, 
plus "Clan points only" trophies above.
Six members or less per clan.

SPECIAL BANNERS
---------------
Okawaru is all about winning, all the time, and thus will award THE ORB
to any player who successfully wins.

Trog, who hates spellcasters, would like to award THE SCYTHE to any
player who kills Sigmund twenty-seven times over the course of the month.

Makhleb thinks players shouldn't need gods to get items, and encourages
the player to SHOP UNTIL YOU DROP, ending a game in which she obtained
at least 5000 gold with 50 or less.

XOM PREFERS A HERETIC and thinks it would be hilarious if a player
managed to mollify every god over the course of the whole month.

Nemelex wants to see players struggle and loves randomness, and so will
give the NEMELEX' CHOICE award to anyone who wins an unwon combo randomly
chosen and announced periodically throughout the tournament.

Vehumet hates spellcasters who make a mockery of mighty magics, and so
will give you the MOOSE AND SQUIRREL award for killing Boris twice in
a single game.

Sif Muna thinks it's great when a spellcaster shows FREE WILL and
maximizes the elemental spell skill opposite from their starting class:
So, for example, a player who maxed out Ice Magic as a Fire Elementalist
would get this award.

Zin thinks an education is crucial to maintaining a healthy mutation-free
lifestyle, and so will award any player who achieves RUNIC LITERACY,
collecting each rune at least once.

The Shining One thinks it's about time that the player DISCOVERED LANGUAGE
by finding her first rune.

Elyvilon thinks it's important to check out what all the gods have to
offer and thus wil give THE PANTHEON to any player who acquires every
god as not a starting god over the course of the tournament.

Kiku is a terrible god and, recognizing this, will give followers and
other players the D:1 CARTOGRAPHER award just for showing up. Thanks,
Kiku!

Yredememnul thinks that only living players should dabble with the undead,
and so will give the GHOSTBUSTER award to anyone who kills at least ten
player ghosts during the month.

Beogh believes that teamwork is important, and so will give Orcish
adulation to the TOP CLAN in the tournament.

Lugonu, who hates the other gods, would like to award THE ATHEIST to
any winning player who never takes a god when she had the option to do so.
